The term AI native is everywhere right
now and most people using that term
couldn't define it if you asked. So let
me cut through the noise and show you
exactly what it means to design AI
native processes. Plus I'll walk you
through a real example that cut a 10
plus hour SAS requirements gathering
process down to just one. In this video
I'll show you what separates simple
workflows in NADN from AI native
business processes. And I'll also let
you in on the secret that's letting AI
native organizations go from getting 1.5
times efficiency gains to over 10x gains
with AI. Plus, I'll show you why asking
where can we add AI is the wrong
question to start with when thinking
about automating your business
processes. All right, so you've probably
been hearing AI native everywhere. Every
consultant is selling AI native business
transformations and it's all over
LinkedIn. There are a million different
definitions of AI native. So much so
that my friend literally messaged me
this week asking, "Does it actually mean
anything?" Fair enough. The term gets
thrown around for everything. There are
AI native products, AI native platforms,
and AI native companies. But what I'm
talking about today is specific to how
leading teams are designing AI native
processes. Whether a process is AI
native or not comes down to one simple
question. Who is the process designed
around? With AI assisted processes, you
design the process for humans and then
add AI tools to help. With AI native
processes, you design the entire process
around the capabilities of AI and then
humans step in where they're needed. Let
me show you exactly what this looks
like. A few weeks ago, I was working
with a hightouch SAS business. They were
spending over 10 hours per customer on
requirements gathering. Consultants were
running through Excel spreadsheets in
endless workshops and meetings. My first
instinct was an AI assisted solution. I
thought if we added a meeting assistant
to take notes and fill in the
spreadsheet during the meetings, we
would solve the painoint. So we built a
proof of concept and it saved them an
hour or so per customer. But in my
opinion, I knew that we could do better.
So coming to terms with that, I took a
step back and asked a different
question. What if we stopped forcing AI
into human heavy processes and
redesigned the entire process to be AI
friendly? What if we flipped it on its
head? We designed an AI native
onboarding experience that removed the
bottleneck entirely. Instead of a
consultant leading 10 sessions, the
customer works directly with the AI
agent to build out their requirements
independently. Then afterwards, the
agent fills in the gaps, identifies
issues to raise to the consultant and
then 10 sessions become one. One
approach adds AI to an existing human
heavy workflow. The other rebuilds the
entire workflow around AI capabilities.
That's the difference. The efficiency
gains of an AI native solution are
actually so much better than AI
assisted. Let me show you the numbers.
Now, here's where things are going to
get really interesting and where most
businesses are leaving massive value on
the table. When you redesign a process
around AI, instead of just adding in
more tools, you don't get incremental
gains, you get exponential ones. Let's
break down the numbers for the
requirements gathering example. With the
AI assisted approach, they were doing 10
hours of workshop sessions. That's 10
hours of consultant time. The AI meeting
bot was saving them about two to three
hours in translating those meetings into
an Excel work. An efficiency gain of
maybe 15 to 20% because AI had solved
the note-taking time. With the AI native
approach, the customer completes an AI
powered onboarding. That's only 1 to 3
hours of their time. The consultant's
not involved. AI prepares a gap analysis
and then provides that to the consultant
and then they come together for one
focused session where they work through
any problems or any gaps that need
clarification. That's a 90% efficiency
gain. It's the same quality of outcome,
but one approach gives us 1.2 times
efficiency and the other gives us 10x.
The difference isn't in AI technology.
Both approaches use the same models. The
difference is in how processes are
designed and being willing to change
your business processes to align with
this new AI paradigm. AI assisted keeps
humans at the center doing the heavy
lifting. It never solves the bottleneck.
An AI native process puts AI in the
center doing the heavy lifting and
brings humans in for the human moments
letting you operate at a way higher
level. It's a really simple shift in how
you're designing the processes. Stop
asking where can we add AI into this
process and start asking how can we
redesign this process so AI does the
work and humans review it and then AI
assisted process AI helps you do the
work and that an AI native process you
help AI do the work now understanding
the difference between AI assisted and
AI native is one thing actually making
that shift in your organization that's
where most businesses get stuck because
you just can't flip a switch and become
AI native overnight there's a specific
road map, a sequence of steps that takes
you from where you are today to running
fully AI native processes across your
business. And that road map is critical
enough that I broke it down in its own
video. Click here and I'll walk you
through the three phases. Getting your
team AI enabled, building traditional
automation, and then implementing
agentic workflows. That's what actually
gets you to AI native.